# QVTo Transformation: ComponentSystem to PCM

This project contains a **QVTo transformation** that maps a component system model to a **Palladio Component Model (PCM)** representation.

## Files

- **Transformation.qvto**  
  The main QVTo transformation script that performs the model-to-model transformation.

- **ComponentSystem2PCM.pcm**  
  The resulting PCM model generated by the transformation.

## How to Run the Transformation

1. Make sure the source model (e.g. `Components.xmi` instance) is available in the workspace.
2. Launch the transformation:
   - Right-click on `Transformation.qvto`
   - Select `Run As > Run Configurations...`
   - Create a new transformation configuration by clicking `QVT Operational Transformation` if not yet existing
   - Specify input and output paths
   - Click `Run`
3. The output will be written to e.g. `ComponentSystem2PCM.pcm`.

## How to View the Result

To view the generated `.pcm` file:

1. Open Eclipse with Palladio installed.
2. Right-click on `ComponentSystem2PCM.pcm`.
3. Choose `Open With > PCM Model Editor`.


## Notes

- The input model must conform to the `MDSDComponentMetamodel`.
- The output model conforms to PCM metamodel.


## Known Problem
In the PCM metamodel, linking resource types need to specify a latency and throughput as a PCMRandomVariable. 
However, trying to create an instance of such a variable leads to an exception `Could not initialize class org.palladiosimulator.pcm.core.impl.PCMRandomVariableImpl`. 
To prevent the transformation from failing, the creation of these Variables is omitted, which leads to `The required feature ... must be set` errors when validating the resulting PCM instance. 